---
layout: post
title:  "Day 11 - Plymouth to Lands End "
date:   2016-09-04 08:10:00
author: Nigel
categories: Route
tags:	route strava
distance: 93.1mi
elevation: 7,727ft
cover:  "/assets/St_Michaels_Mount_II5302_x_2982.png"
---

<div class="key-stats">
  <strong>Day 11 in numbers - </strong> Distance: 93.1mi, Elevation: 7,727ft, Estimated moving time: 8hrs
</div>

Our final day is set to be one of the most challenging days of all. Total elevation for our finally is over 7,700ft and a distance of 93 miles.

By this stage hopefully our legs will be like granite, our bikes will still be working and the Knights will still being conversing with each other.

Hopefully it will have been a magical experience for all who taken part in an epic journey. Most will say never again, but you just never know...

Our journey from Plymouth starts in earnest after a short ferry ride across to Torpoint. The route follows the course of the River Lyner to the first steep climb of the day at Watergate. Our legs should be nice and warmed up by then!!

We then hug the coastline heading east to Carlyon Bay which is famous for the area surrounding the bay was a Centre of the mining industry and is now a golf course. In 1979 a scene for the film Draculas’ filmed here and in 1986 the music video for Is This Love? Written and performed by Alison Moyet was filmed on the beach.

The journey continues to head east through London Apprentice, a reminder of the smoke we left behind and across the River Tresillian into Truro, which is Cornwall’s only city.

Once through this magnificent Cathedral City we will be met with a further hard climb at Carn Brea measuring 228m in height, followed hopefully with a good downhill section passing St Michaels Mount. The Cornish name means literally, "the grey rock in a wood”.

St Michael's Mount is one of forty-three (unbridged) tidal islands that one can walk to from mainland Britain.

The Breacon beacons are the final hurdle to be conquered before the last couple of hours ride into Lands’ End. These can be brutal and this depends mainly on the weather, so keep your fingers crossed for us.

Finally that magical moment when you see the white walled visitors Centre at Lands’ End and the famous sign post showing all the far off destinations around the world.

Hopefully Keith, our 9th man will be standing by with a few cans of beer to lubricate the dry throats of us all.

A Big thank you goes to all who have companies who have sponsored us, Sean and Steve for doing the website, and to you who have donated to the charities not matter the amount given.

As I said earlier you just never know when we may get the urge again.

<iframe style="width:100%;height:600px;" src="https://veloviewer.com/routes/6937694/embed2" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>
