---
layout: post
title:  "Day 9 - Return of the hills"
date:   2017-05-25 05:30:00
author: Sean
categories: Ride
tags: ride
cover:  "/assets/chitcomb-barns.jpeg"
---

## Good bye to Cirencester

Cerencester was lovely.  Great YHA hostel, great weather and a good
Italian meal to recharge the batteries.  Special thanks to Mrs Hamer
various cakes and laundry.

## A tale of two cities; Bristol 

Great ride in on segregated cycle paths.  Wizzing through tunnels on
ribbons of perfectly smooth tarmac.  This is how transport cycling
should be.

Bristol is a cool city.  The old docks area was full of trendy types
sipping flat whites and completely at ease with a group of sweaty
herberts in Lycra wafting through their midsts.

Leaving Bristol, however, was a different story.  We ended up crossing
some very busy roads.  All in all a somewhat hairy.  Not exactly a
stress free experience.  We all got through with no issues though, so all's
well that end's well.


## More glorious sunshine

The weather was fantastic.  Very hot and not much wind.

I think everyone was able to enjoy the sunshine except for any nitwits that
had gotten so sunburnt on the first day that they were forced to wear arm and
leg warmers to protect their damaged limbs (count 1: your's truly).



## The last hill

Not much else happened on the rest of the trip as we were mostly just
slogging along unpleasant flattish A-roads.  Can't chat because of the noise and
being single file.  Sometimes you have to just get the ride done in the
knowledge that it'll get better latter. 

Moving on, once we got off the A-roads we just had a couple of big
climbs left to do before getting to our evening stay.

Anyone who knows the Wimbleball Lake hills will know that they're are
some proper slopes there.

Anyone who knows the Wimbleball Lake hills will know that they're are
some proper slopes there.

Climb of the day was probably Elworthy Hill.  At 1.2 miles long and with
an average gradient 10% and a maximum gradient somewhere around 22% it's
not to be taken lightly.


## Where's the camping barn? The actual last hill

So after the big climb we were all looking forward to coasting along to
our final destination.

Sigh, you know this going don't you? If not please refer to earlier entries. :)

The route loaded on our GPS didn't match the location of the camping
barn, which is not surprising as it's not listed on Google Maps either.

So after knocking on a few doors we were directed up yet another large
hill. (15% max, I think). Lined with trees and strewn with gravel.  No
rest for the righteous.

When we found our accommodation it was down a long gravel covered hill.
Dicey stuff on skinny road bike tyres.

Tired but undaunted the Knights roll on.



---

If you'd like to support our charities please follow any of these links
to our Just Giving pages:-
[The Whitechapel Mission](https://www.justgiving.com/crowdfunding/nigel-bunton-1), [St
Mungos](https://www.justgiving.com/crowdfunding/nigel-bunton-2) and [The
Sea Cadets](https://www.justgiving.com/crowdfunding/nigel-bunton)
