---
author: Fitz
categories: Ride
cover: '/assets/mike-fitz-baggy-in-n-yorks-moors.jpeg'
date: '2017-05-20 05:30:00'
layout: post
tags: ride
title: 'Day 5 - Chatton to Glaisdale'
---

## Learning New Tricks

Following a pretty dreary night, the proficient cyclists gave a lesson
to the fatties in how to power up lesser climbs. This meant the run into
Alnwick was uneventful and passed quickly.

The early morning exertions had a detrimental effect on Baggie. Coupled
with a little over-indulgence the previous evening, the only part of
Alnwick he saw was the public toilets.

After the previous evening, the route was altered slightly and followed
the A1068, near the Northumberland coast. This was a, sometimes, busy A
road, so the team had to keep things single file. Such roads can be
boring and, or, dangerous so there was little talking and this may have
signified things to come later in the day.

Maintaining a southerly route the group rolled through towns and
villages into Newcastle for a lunchtime stop, just off the city centre.
There was some, er, modelling photography being done next to the lunch
stop that kept the chaps entertained over their break.

## The Cycling Doldrums

After the lunchtime stop, the group departed Newcastle, continuing south
through Gateshead and other towns and villages.

With the greatest of respect to the north-east, these aren’t the most
inspiring of towns and you could sense the apathy creeping in.

This isn’t unusual in endurance events and dealing with it is the
measure of how a team gets through such low points. Although easier
cycling, long flat spells can simply add to low esteem. Eventually,
short of their target of Northallerton, albeit by only 5 miles or so,
the riders called it a day, next to a field that resembled a World War 1
battlefield.

The accommodation, as a result of the route change was a minibus ride
away, in Glaisdale in the North Yorkshire Moors National Park. But oh,
what a location!

A bunk-house on the side of a valley, bathed in sunshine, and with Emma,
the host, putting out logs for the fire-pit we could sit around and talk
of the day’s events.

A hearty dinner was enjoyed by all, cooked by Bill, then the team
debriefed the day. It was to prove to be a decisive moment in the
trip...

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you'd like to support our charities please follow any of these links
to our Just Giving pages:- [The Whitechapel
Mission](https://www.justgiving.com/crowdfunding/nigel-bunton-1), [St
Mungos](https://www.justgiving.com/crowdfunding/nigel-bunton-2) and [The
Sea Cadets](https://www.justgiving.com/crowdfunding/nigel-bunton)
